Cost avoidance is the primary outcome
of efficiency gains in the federal government.
Because the VA cannot cross appropriations
nor save for investment in subsequent years,
the funds are not technically saved,
yet can potentially be reallocated.
A common example is when there are realized
cost savings in non-patient care areas
which allow for a reallocation of those funds
towards direct or indirect patient care
areas in that same fiscal year.
This scenario drives more efficiency efforts
as patient care funding is short in most years.
As an example, a supply chain department
implements the use of 5S in their secondary supply closets.
A 5S is a lean tool used to clean,
sort, and standardize an area.
By doing so, they have been able to reduce
the stock on hand, reduce stock-outs,
and reduce the amount of time needed
to scan all areas in the morning.
The time saved from the reduction
in scanning requirement was 25%.
That 25% savings in time allowed for those supply techs
to now spend time maintaining
the primary area more effectively.
This reallocation of time
has allowed for a further reduction
of stock on hand and freed up space.
That space was able to be reallocated and converted
to a mental health clinic space,
which has now increased patient access to mental health.
As you can see, the impacts to the operation is profound
despite our inability to save
and reinvest money in future years.